13:01:07 » Test test test. Thank you..
13:01:48 » Hi, everyone. Welcome in. We are going to go ahead and get started. So we're about to close down the chat so that you can focus more on the presentation. I want to let you know you'll still be able to communicate directly with the panelists through the chat. This is a 3 part presentation. The time is shared between CARE SHOP and Title IX. And we'll have time for Q and A at the end. You should plan to stay through to the end of the presentation.
13:02:03 So we know it's easy to listen to a webinar in the background and we totally get that. We're hoping that you'll watch and interact as we'll use slides and polls that assist with the presentation.
13:02:25 » To relieve questions about this training requirement. First, we've seen questions about this. Your log in information is automatically captured by zoom. If you're here we've got you. No need to contact us about your registration information. We'll reach out to you if we don't have a record of your attendance in the next couple weeks.
13:02:46 Second, I know many of us have connectivity issues -- thanks for bearing with limitations on our end. You could hear lagging with the sound. There's a thousand people on here. That's inevitable. This presentation is being recorded.
13:02:53 We're going to move on and have some introductions from CARE.
13:03:18 » Hi and welcome. We're excited for everyone on here to be apart of the UCSC community. My name is Allison. I'm the community support lead intern at CARE. And a film and media double major.
13:03:42 » Hi I'm Angelica. I'm a prevention education internet care and a feminist studies and psychology major. We believe survivors at CARE and offer them a free and confidential space to get emotional support, discuss rights and options and make plans Arnold safety.
13:04:16 » Hi everyone. My name is Anna. I'm the prevention education lead intern at care. I'm a neuroscience major. Alongside providing support services CARE aims at preventing violence from stopping in the first place. We all have a responsibility and a role to play in preventing violence and fostering a safe and inclusive campus. We're going to talk to you how we as slugs can CARE for our fellow slugs.
13:04:35 » And welcome again to UCSC. I'm the prevention education coordinate at care. I'm a doctoral candidate in the anthropology department. We know how hard you've worked to get here. You have the right to access your education free from violence. Care is here to support you in that.
13:05:11 The topics we're going to cover in this training are heavy and serious. Our goal is not to scare you but to provide information to create change on our campus. Take care of yourself during this presentation. If difficult feelings come up for you we encourage you to take a few deep breaths or step away to rejoin our space. If needed a confidential advocate is available to talk to you at care's office line. Let's start with ground rules and acknowledgments.
13:05:34 » Sew show each other respect as you engage in this space. We're all coming from different perspectives. In this space we may be survivors ourselves. We come from a diversity of life experiences based on race, gender identity r sexual orientation, nationality, cultural backgrounds, economic status and more.
13:05:56 » This is a space of learning how we as slugs can care for our community and look out for one another. We never know when this information will become essential. We ask that you share what you learn with friends family and partners. That you care your knowledge with CARE services for anyone who need them.
13:06:25 » You will be able to see only who is speaking on the screen. You cannot turn your camera or microphone on. If you have tech issues you can chat directly with the panelists and we will try to help you out. We should have time at the end to answer some of your questions live. We may not be able to get through all of them. When questions are answered note that your name will be visible unless you choose to submit anonymously.
13:06:58 » We'll be using anonymous polls during this webinar. Aggregate data may be used for research purposes for my dissertation. Responding to polls is voluntary. We hope they make this webinar engaging for you. If you're signed into the session on a mobile phone or tablet you might not be able to access the polls. If that's the case for you, hang tight, we'll share the results throughout our presentation.
13:07:04 » We're going to get started with.
13:08:07 You should see a pop up on your screen. Take a couple minutes to answer. Have you previously had conversations with your friends about consent? If you were in a situation where you noticed someone was about to be harmed, would you step in? Do you personally know someone who has experienced sexual violence, dating or domestic violence or sexual harassment? Please take a moment to answer them.
13:08:27 So it looks like about 65% of you have had conversation wise your peers about consent which is great. We know that a lot of us didn't have a good sex education in high school. Let's get on the same page abou
13:08:36 » Here at UCSC we use a standard of affirmative consent. This means that consent is based on choice.
13:08:46 » Consent is active not passive. Consent can never be implied if you subscribe dating.
13:08:55 » Consent is on going. Consent to one thing is not consent to all things and it can be taken away at any time.
13:09:08 » Consent must be freely given. Giving in to fear or pressure is not consent. And being unable to make a decision because of alcohol, drugs or other medication is not consent.
13:09:21 » Consent is a clear enthusiastic yes. Not the lack of a no. Silence, hesitation or I don't know are not a yes. And those indicate that it's time for you to stop and check in.
13:09:48 » Consent means 2 or more people deciding together to do the same thing at the same time in the same way with each other. Consent is the key factor between sex that is mutual and sexual assault. Let's see what talking about consent can look like in practice.
13:09:52 » How does it feel? Can I keep going?
13:09:54 » That feels so going.
13:09:57 » I need to stop for a second.
13:10:01 » What do you mean you want to stop I was so close.
13:10:05 » I need to take a break. My head is spinning.
13:10:06 » I'm hot, right.
13:10:11 » I think I might have overdone it with a hypnotic earlier.
13:10:16 » Why can't you keep going. Not like we haven't done this before.
13:10:30 » I've been listening to a lot of throw back missy Elliott lately. I'm not feeling well and you putting pressure on me isn't helping at all. I need to go and talk about this later.
13:10:55 » Consent can be with drawn at any time. Being in a relationship with them and having a prior history with them is not automatic consent. People who are incapacitated cannot consent practically. If there is ambiguity, stop. Communicate and respect each other's limits.
13:10:55 .
13:11:14 » Even when we know what consent is we don't always have the language to talk about it with our partners. But that isn't the reality and these messages can be harmful or confusing. Talking about consent might seem awkward. It doesn't have to be.
13:11:27 » Getting consent is about more than asking a series of yes or no questions and checking a box. It's about having a conversation about what you and your partner want to do together.
13:11:51 » There's lots of different ways that you can start a conversation about consent. Things like can I kiss you? How does it feel when I do this? Do you need a break? Let's look at an example how you communicate your limits and what you can see what your partner is into.
13:11:55 » I'm so happy my friends convince mead to come tonight.
13:12:08 » Me too. I don't think I could find anyone who liked stranger things as much as me. My roommate's in town. If you want to watch them.
13:12:11 » I'm recently single.
13:12:21 » I should tell you that one night stands are not my thing. We could get some food and maybe kiss.
13:12:23 » That sounds good. Let's go.
13:12:24 » Nice.
13:12:46 » When it comes to consent it is critical not to make assumptions. Going back to somebody's room is not consent. Be up front about your limits and ask your partner about theirs. Not only is this a key part of preventing sexual violence.
13:12:49 » That was --
13:12:59 » Consent requires us to respect each other's boundaries. If someone expresses they aren't interested wearing them down is coercion not consent.
13:13:16 » Whatever the circumstances are that you're engaging in sexual interactions whether that be in person or virtual settings getting consent is the minimum that is expected. Sex should be mutual, reciprocal and fun.
13:13:33 » We've been talking about the importance of practicing consent in interpersonal relationships. I want to talk about our shared responsibility as UCSC community members to prevent violence.
13:13:46 » Bystander intervention is proven to be an effective way of preventing violence. Bystander intervention means noticing a situation that seems potentially unsafe or harmful and intervening in some way.
13:14:06 » At the start of this presentation 83% of you said that you would step in if you saw someone about to be harmed. That's really encouraging. 18% of you said no or you were unsure. There are situational factors that can make intervening feel difficult in practice.
13:14:29 » Research shows that we are generally more likely to intervene if we're the only ones witnessing a harmful situation. The more people that are around, the more likely we are to think someone else will do it. When people aren't stepping in we think the situation does not require intervention.
13:14:42 » Personal reasons for not intervening can include fear of embarrassment. Your gender or racial identity might not make you feel safe intervening.
13:15:09 » We are also less likely to help if we perceive the person to be responsible for their misfortune. If we seen someone who drunk in an unsafe scenario we might think that they should have known better. What matters in the moment of risk isn't whether or not we agree with someone's choicing about making sure we look out for one another and help when we can.
13:15:33 » It can be difficult to step in, there is no greater power than the power of peer influence. If we see someone else modeling a helping behavior we're likely to step up too. You're empowering everyone who witnesses your action to take action in the future. It creates a culture where we look out for one another.
13:16:10 » We do want to acknowledge the importance of your safety. We would never encourage you to put yourself at risk of harm or step into a situation where violence is likely to escalate. Given these potential barriers we're going to share strategies how you can intervene in a way that feels safest and comfortable for you. I'm seeing a lot of questions in the chat about your registration and needing to log in. I want to say as a reminder zoom is recording your email and name. We've got you if yo your
13:16:34 » Ways you intervene fall into 4 categories that we call D's. Direct, distract, delegate and delay. Direct comes to mind when people think of intervention. Taking direct action and addressing the situation. This strategy works well for people who feel comfortable asserting themselves and safe enough to get involved.
13:16:55 » Distract is for those times when you want to interrupt a situation but don't want to directly confront what is happening. Ask for directions or create a diversion like spilling a drink. Distracting is a form of deescalation. It can give folks an opportunity to think or get out of the situation.
13:17:14 » Delegate is another strategy when you aren't sure how to intervene or don't feel comfortable doing so yourself. You can bring the situation to the attention of someone better suited to address it. Friend of the people involved, RAr professor, or trusted staff member.
13:17:29 » Delay is when you take action after the fact. It can be helpful to check in with someone impacted afterward. This strategy can be combined with the other D's.
13:17:44 » The type of intervention that makes the most sense will depend on your comfort and the situation. We never want you to put yourself at risk. We want you to think about how you might be able to intervene when it's needed.
13:17:57 » Now let's try to scenarios.
13:19:34 If you're on a phone or tablet you might not be able to see the poll. That's fine. First you're at a party and see a classmate who is obviously intoxicated let outside by someone you don't know. Second you see a friend of yours treating their partner in a way that makes you uncomfortable. Third you are watching a remote lecture and see a student make another comment about students in the chat. Take a moment and answer these questions..
13:20:27 » Close to half of you are choosing to intervene directly. I want you to know that there is no one right answer. We might feel more comfortable intervening directly when we know the parties involved or when we're outgoing. Remember that there are otheraggressions.
13:20:33 » And reinforces shared values of safety, equity and inclusion.
13:21:08 » We're not asking any of you to do this all the time. We know it is too much for one person to constantly be on support. We're asking that each of you commit to intervening one time where you wouldn't have before. One time when you hear a degrading comment. One time that you step in and check in on someone. There are 1500 of us on this webinar right now. By doing this we can collectively prevent thousand instances of harm.
13:21:35 » To know when to intervene though we have to recognize what sexual and interpersonal violence looks like and how it shows up in our community. At the start of this presentation 63% of you said you personally know someone who's experienced sexual violence, dating or domestic violence, or sexual harassment. That's a big number. These instances are prevalent on college campuses.
13:21:46 » Sexual and interpersonal violence are about power and control. Power can be inserted structurally or in personal interactions.
13:22:16 » We want to be clear, anyone can experience sexual violence. There are gendered and racial dimensions to how sexual violence is experienced. 1 in 4 women, 1 in 16 men and 1 in 3 trans and gender nonconforming students will experience sexual assault while in college. Via a friend, a date an a quatance or partner.
13:22:40 » These rate service higher for women of color. Nearly half of black and indigenous women in the United States experience unwanted sexual contact within their life time. These communities are less likely to be supported by legal institutions which white women are and narrows the ways they can access support.
13:23:02 » This means understanding how people's multi-dimensional identities shape their experiences of and responses to violence. We need to understand how racism colonization, transfonephobia, ableism and forms of power and control reinforce and connect to sexual violence.
13:23:25 » When we say sexual violence we are not only talking about rape and physical assault. Define sexual violence as unwanted sexual action that is attempted or committed without the other person's consent. Includes nonconsensual actions violate boundaries, and debraid them.
13:23:51 » Rape is one type of sexual violence. Any sexual touch without consent is sexual violence. As we see on the pyramid sexual violence is not only physical. It can be verbal or technological. Street harassment and other comments online are not a compliment. They can make people afraid for lives and safety.
13:24:14 » Consent is still necessary in virtual settings too. Distributing photos without their permission is also sexual violence and against university policy. If you receive a sexy photo from your crush remember it's for your eyes only. Also don't send unsolicited nudes. It's not cute.
13:24:36 » Stalking is when one person does not respect another person's boundaries. Or repeatedly texting or messaging someone on social media after the other person does not respond or indicates they don't want to talk. Stalking is romanticized in movies or on TV. In reality it can be very scary.
13:25:10 » At the bottom of the pyramid that you see on your screen we can see the ways that society normalizes sexual violence. Like boys will be boys or victim blaming myths. Through the objectification of women's bodies on are media and structural discrimination and inequality. These attitudes prop up and condone forms of sexual violence that we see higher on the pyramid. We have to intervene in those forms at the top and the bottom of the pyramid.
13:25:32 » As with sexual violence power and control can also be asserted within our interpersonal relationships. Dating or domestic violence occurs when one person uses tactics of manipulation to exert power and control over one another. And it can occur within our romantic relationships or within our families.
13:25:50 » We've seen how covid and shelter in place impacted domestic violence within families. Isolation, loss of financial resources, lack of ability to get away, and surveillance through video technology amplified control within domestic violence situations.
13:26:21 » Dating, abuse and manipulation can be subtle and tends to get worse over time. So it can be hard to know for sure if we or our friends are in an abusive relationship. We should know 1 third to 1 half of college aged relationships contain abusive or unhealthy dynamics. It's important to be able to recognize the warning signs.
13:26:31 » Emotional abuse can make us feel stupid, ugly or uncontrollable. Or make us feel dependent on them.
13:26:55 » Gas lighting is another extremely common form of psychological manipulation. This can happen when a controlling partner attempts to make us question our own memories or sense of reality. Done by denying experiences, minimizing concerns or blaming abuse on others. Gas lighting can be disorienting and difficult to identify.
13:27:12 » Romantic partners can be abusive by isolating us from friends and family. A lot of the times an abusive partner can try to forbid their partner from hanging out with a person of a different gender.
13:27:30 » Abusive partners can blame us, friends and family, pets or themselves. They also might threaten to out us to others as undocumented, queer, or transgender. It's messed up stuff.
13:27:47 » In abusive relationships there are periods of time when the abusive partner is kind and promises to change. Their cruelty comes back. This is known as the cycle of violence. It is rare for an abusive partner to change for good.
13:28:14 » People ask why don't they just leave? It's important to have compassion for the abuse that occurs in relationships. People stay or go back to partners for reasons including love, fear, hope that partner will change or financial need. If harm is coming from a family member there can be additional barriers to leaving including not wanting to disprupt family dynamics.
13:28:41 » We want to acknowledge that leaving an abusive relationship is the time when the survivor is most in danger. So this can take a while. Know that care is always available to work with survivors in unsafe dating or domestic situations to make a plan for safety. You're a concerned friend our advocates can talk through feelings with you as well.
13:29:08 » If you have a friend in a relationship that seems unhealthy it's important to show them that you are there for them and connect them to support resources. See what this looks like when someone confides to friends about a distressing situation.
13:29:16 » Hi, are you okay. You were on your phone during dinner and barely said anything the whole time.
13:29:29 » Lee and I got into a huge fight before we left. We hung out this weekend and every night this quarter. They were so upset yelling all kinds of things.
13:29:31 » What they were yelling.
13:29:38 » Is that a threw my phone at me. That was scary. I thought Lee wouldn't let me leave.
13:29:45 » Sounds like someone has a temper. Couples fight. I'm sure you'll get over it.
13:29:48 » Maybe I should be a little more understanding.
13:30:03 » That's not an excuse. This sounds like person a normal argument. I mean stopping you from seeing your friends. Does Lee always act this way when they're upset.
13:30:09 » Not all the time. Sometimes they call me stupid and selfish.
13:30:11 » Until the next fight.
13:30:12 ».
13:30:14 .
13:30:27 » I keep hoping each fight will be our last fight. They were driving so crazy and I thought we were going to crash. Regardless of everything Lee has never hit me.
13:30:28 .
13:30:34 » You don't deserve to be treated like this. I know you care about Lee. This is too much.
13:30:35 » I need to clear my head.
13:30:40 » I think that we should tell a staff member.
13:30:58 » We should let her decide who she wants to tell. Most uc employees are mandatory reporters. Which can be helpful for some people. But you should always let them decide when and who to tell.
13:31:05 » I think that might be worth it. I need to talk to someone about this relationship it's getting overwhelming.
13:31:08 » There's an office in oaks called care.
13:31:10 » I think that might be worth it.
13:31:16 » I have classes in oaks. I can come with you to your appointment. And get coffee.
13:31:27 » That's the nicest thing you've said to me this conversation. I would love that. Let's go.
13:31:46 » As we just saw in this scene if a friend discloses to you they are experiencing interpersonal harm it's important to listen, share resources that you know of and offer them support. Remember that as slugs we should take care of one another.
13:32:03 » Because sexual violence is an act of power and control, we want to give power back to survivors in how they heal and find justice. Even if we have strong opinions about how someone should react. We should try to avoid judging them.
13:32:26 » The thing is letting survivors decide for themselves if they want to make a report. There are many barriers to reporting that we should be mindful of. In situations across the country has not felt like a safe option for communities of color in particular.
13:32:50 » So we're going to spend our last few minutes talking about resources available to all of you so you can seek support or share your knowledge with others. The program we represent is care. Our mission is to prevent sexual violence, dating and domestic violence and stalking and cultivate a campus environment where all survivors are supported.
13:33:10 Our advocates provide free, confidential and nonjudgmental support to folks impacted by violence. We're providing all of our services remotely and meet over zoom, phone or another way that feels comfortable for you. We're here for you whether you're in Santa Cruz or not.
13:33:25 » CARE is one of 2 resources on campus. The other is CAPS which offers free and confidential therapy to all UCSC students regardless of insurance coverage.
13:33:52 » There are many great and supportive resources at UCSC. It is important to know that if you tell any campus employee about sexual assault, sexual harassment, dating or stalking they are required to report that to Title IX. You will hear from the Title IX office later during this presentation about what they do and how they support students.
13:34:22 » UCSC has resource centers to provide students with social and academic support through campus and community programming. The African American resource culture center, the Asian American Pacific islander resource center, the linele cantue queer center. You can find information about these places by Googling UCSC resource centers.
13:34:47 » We wanted to let you know about off campus resources. So if you needed support after hours or on the weekend you can call the national sexual assault hot line at 800656 hope to get connected to a crisis advocate in your area.
13:35:04 » We want to thank you for your attention and interaction in this presentation. You can connect with us on social media. You can also sign up for monthly news letter.
13:35:28 » Additionally if you want to get involved you can attend our ambassador training to learn how you can prevent violence and support survivors in our communities. This event will be held remotely in November. Sign up with news letter or email care to get updates on this training and other events.
13:35:57 » I'd like to echo thanks for attention and engagement during this presentation. Next you're going to hear from our campus partners at shop and Title IX. After our campus partners finish their presentations we should have time to get to questions that you submitted. I'd like to pass the virtual mic over to our friends at shop.
13:36:11 » Good afternoon students welcome to UCSC. We affectionately call each other slugs. My name is Ali Hays and I'm a health educator.
13:36:18 » I'm amber parker I'm a health educator and work at shop.
13:36:53 » We're going to talk about what shop is. I want to acknowledge that many students use all of the resources that we're talking about today. We're excited to be in partnership with CARE and Title IX. SHOP stands for student health and outreach promotion. We support students around sexual health and alcohol and other drugs. Our philosophy is to meet students where they're at. To support students living their authentic lives while reducing harm.
13:37:17 Something I wanted to let you know that SHOP is available to all students. Not connected to our health insurance and the vast majority of our resources are free. They're confidential. The ohm thing that seems to cost around shop is safer sex supplies. As we talk about resources these are for all of you.
13:37:39 » Just to add too, SHOP is a good place if you want to think out loud and talk through experiences you have in college this is a great place to go. Please feel free to connect with Ali and I. And so we're going to pull up slides here. And tell you more about what we have.
13:38:30 » So first off this is just our emails so that if you wanted to talk directly to one of us after the presentation you can. And we'll talk more about how to make appointments with us. So again, I'm Ali and this is Amber and we are here for you. This is real talk my favorite slide. We want you to know that students are the heart of SHOP. Students that work with us on a typical year we have 40 to 60 students. Our contraceptive educators. We use a frame work of public health as well as college stude
13:38:44 We are providing a lot of services that will be remote fall quarter. Stay tuned for opportunities to connect with our awesome peer educators.
13:39:22 » So I wanted to take a few minutes to introduce our core group of interns this year. Typically we have a lot more students. This year we have a small team of 5. They're all amazing. Alejandra is knowledgeable about HIV, STI prevention. Taking a lead role in covid testing this year. If you have questions or concerns about testing for SI's. Liz is our recovery intern.
13:40:00 She hosts a lot of drop in one on one zooms to help connect. For folks just wanting to just kind of think more about their relationship with alcohol and other drugs. Liz is available. Max who has beautiful purple hair on the right side they are our education intern and hosting virtual work shops. If you want to learn more about sexual health, pleasure, establishing boundaries with your partners max puts on awesome work shops. Gisele is our party safe intern.
13:40:12 How to do it as safely as possible. If you are going to experiment with substances what are things you can do to make sure you have the best experience you can.
13:40:34 And camilla is our contraceptive educator. So he's 5 folks are going to put on lots of virtual events. Instagram live events. Stay tuned and I look forward to connecting with them so we can help you all out.
13:41:13 » So we would be remiss if we didn't acknowledge this moment. That we are in a pandemic. Most of you are remote. And your navigate college and covid at the same time. It's tough. It's so tough. And so we are down to have conversations with you all about how to navigate these 2 realities. How to help folks do self care and do their best to thrive in the most challenging time some of us have faced.  Is a photo of our professional team. You saw our team of 5 interns.
13:41:41 Amber and myself and our director meg and drug and alcohol Jorge we can connect remotely. As we get to open up in the future we get to do work shops and connect with folks and collaborate and support you all in person is what we look forward to doing in the future.
13:42:14 » There we go. All right. There's a lot of text up on the slide here. This is jiving you an overview of what we support you with. In terms of sexual health information we have conversations around pregnancy prevention, consent HIV and STI prevention. And for alcohol and other drugs we have all sorts of conversations around overdose prevention, party safe strategies, recovery support.
13:42:40 We are up for these conversations. This is what Ali and I do every day. We're flexible. If you prefer zoom or a phone call if you want to send an email we're flexible and want to be there for you no matter where you're at. These are all the topics plus more that we can support you with. Keep that in mind.
13:43:13 » So in addition to SHOP which is a physical space at the health center and resources campus wide we have another part of our program and that's called the cove. A physical space as well as a larger movement on campus. We have a team of staff and students that support slugs around harm reduction resources. They create a safe and supportive space. Dedicated to helping loved ones reduce harm to alcohol and drugs.
13:43:40 Many students need the cove resources somewhere between 2 to 4 years with us. You might have a roommate struggling with substances. You might have a romantic partner. Maybe a family member struggling with addiction back home and impacting your academics. Or you might want to look at your own relationship with substances and want a space to unpack that with somebody.
13:44:11 You can see the cove community in these pictures. The person with the hat on is Jorge. And they provide a lot of support for students anywhere on the continuum of substance use to recovery. There's a picture of Liz again. And folks can be allies to students in recovery as well. If you want to be part of the cove community we're going to give you ways to follow their social media and website.
13:44:35 One of the things that Jorge and their team provide every quarter is an updated meetings list for al anon and alcoholic anonymous. Those who want structured meetings they have that on and off campus. We provide that every fall. Cove is another great resource for students.
13:45:13 » All right. So as Ali mentioned earlier we're navigating a lot right now in addition to alcohol and drug topics we're down to help you with general wellness. Having trouble managing stress or thinking of ways to connect with students being remote we're here for you. Conversations around daily gratitude and joy. That link on the screen right now the tiny url is live. If you want to take a screen shot you are able to set up an appointment with us within this week if you wanted.
13:45:44 What I like about these sessions we have the student drive it. If you want to do a quick question and answer, we're up for that. If you want extended support we're here for you. We can listen. We can do goals and check in on you. If we don't know the answer to something we're going to find the person who has it. If you want to take a screen shot we're up for those conversations as well.
13:46:45 » So again in a traditional year we're all together we have 40 to 60 students that volunteer in our offices each quarter. Many students are drawn to work in our office who are interested in a career in medicine, public health, social work. Want to be in our space as well. If you want to get involved in the future, I think following our Facebook and Instagram pages is a way to stay abridged whether or not it is going on. Our physical space is closed this quarter. That is the team of 5 interns and
13:47:28 So here are ways to track cool event thars happening. Our fun campaigns. We have our 3 Instagram. We have our websites that have a lot of great resources and videos. And we have our Facebook pages. We encourage folks to follow us so you can stay in the loop. When you do contact us for an appointment we want to let you know that it is confidential and that we have your email. And so if you are reaching out to us it's not entirely anonymous. We can email you back. You get to provide as much identi
13:47:58 And we are stoked to have you join our UCSC community. And anything else you want to add amber I felt I was going to say if folks have shop specific questions we're going to be here for the live Q and A at the end. Up next we have folks from Title IX. Thanks for tuning in. We're excited to have. So welcome.
13:48:39 » Thanks Ali. Thanks amber. Hello and welcome everyone to UC Santa Cruz at least virtually. Thanks for your attention and all the good questions you've posed in the chat. As amber mentioned I'm from Title IX. My name is Jared. I'm the associate director of equity and equal protection on campus. Our office has the important responsibility of addressing complaints of discrimination and harassment on the basis of different protected categories. Within that responsibility lies the Title IX office.
13:49:11 You may have heard of Title IX. You're going to learn a lot more today. In brief the Title IX office has the responsibility of insuring that no person is deprived the benefits of their university education or university employment based on their sex. In short our mission is to stop sex discrimination and harassment, address impact to individuals in the community. And prevent it's occurrence.
13:49:29 We have a team of interns who will be doing most of the presenting today as well as my colleague, Laura, who you will meet next. We will be around to answer questions in the Q and A and answer questions after programming.
13:50:05 » Hi everyone I'm Laura. My role at Title IX includes reviewing reports that come, and also working with the student interns that you're about to meet to do campus wide prevention education. So yeah, and I also will bring up a talk more about canvas. I know you have questions about how you're going to access this information and other training related questions. We'll answer that at the very end. Thank you.
13:50:19 » Hi everyone. My name is Sona and I'm a grad student in the psychology department. I'm one of the grad interns for Title IX. And I use she/her pronouns.
13:50:34 » Hi everyone my name is Kasey. I use she/her pronouns and I'm an undergrad intern for the Title IX office.
13:50:43 » I'm Anna wong studying robotics engineer. I use she/her pronouns.
13:51:03 » Hi everyone my name is Chloe. I'm a graduate student in the statistic department. I use she/her pronouns.
13:51:49 » All right. So this here is our team in the Title IX office. These are bit [PHO-EPBLG]y. The office is overseen by the Title IX coordinator Isabel. And we have 10 staff members now. These are individuals if you contact the Title IX office will be able to answer questions you have or directly to the correct place to answer those questions. Our team includes I believe 4 investigators. Laura and myself and 2 complaint resolution officers. All of whom are trained in addressing sex based discriminat
13:52:25 As I mentioned a bit earlier our office, equity and equal protection office also addresses complaints of discrimination and harassment based on other protected categories beyond sex. Race, religion, gender, all of these different forms of discrimination and harassment have, you know, an avenue for addressing under equity and equal protection. And I think you're going to meet the interns next.
13:53:04 » So we also have a team of undergrad and grad student interns. And we provide support with creating and presenting trainings and work shops. In order to protect privacy student interns do not hear any details about a Title IX report or people involved in those reports. The overall goal of having student interns is to increase student and community engagement with the Title IX office. Foster a campus climate in which members of the community feel protected.
13:53:24 Our contact information is here as well as social media. We encourage you to reach out with questions if you want to get involved and feedback on how we can support you and  campus.memb
13:54:19 » Please take a minute to respond to our first poll which asks what do you know about Title IX. Your answers are anonymous for this poll and any other polls throughout our trai like.ning.
13:55:34 » The most important thing to remember is that Title IX is about equity and insuring that all students access education free from discrimination. And it looks like 42% of you all know what Title IX is and when they can help. That's great. Hopefully this presentation will be a useful in.
13:56:07 » So we want to emphasize that Title IX protects everyone. It prohibits discrimination based on sex and gender. Protects LGBTQ folks as well as nonconforming students or employees. Prohibits harassing someone based on sexual orientation.
13:56:42 » Title IX does not report citizenship status. One of the reasons why people may hesitate to report to Title IX is due to citizenship status. Title IX protects all students regardless of citizenship or national immigration status. We work with students to answer questions and concerns they have regarding citizenship and connect them with resources. For international students in particular we'll work with the international student and scholar students to provide support.
13:57:03 Ensuring access and equity. Being a student can be really hard. There may be a couple of obstacles that you may encounter during your time here. Related to pregnancy and lactation.
13:57:26 Shared language and reportable misconduct. Now we're going to go over definitions for terms that are relevant to the Title IX related processes. And we'll also go over specific examples of incidents that are reportable to Title IX. Parties in a Title IX report or process.
13:57:58 Once Title IX has received report and begun the process refers to the parties involved as the complainant and respondent. The complainant the a person who reported sexual misconduct or reported behavior including retaliation. The respondent is alleged to have engaged in this conduct. And report of sexual violence, sexual harassment, retaliation or other behaviors.
13:59:00 » LGBTQIA communities have historically and to this day faced discrimination. LGBTQIA + stands for lesbian gay bisexual queer intersexual and asexual. We'll also use the term gender and sexual minorities GSM to refer to gender minorities and sexual orientations that are outside of the cis gender norm. Gender is a social identity which develops throughout a person's life as early as age 3 to as late as age 90. Gender identity can change throughout a person's life. Gender expression is the way  or
13:59:43 Used to refer to someone's gender identity matches sex they were assigned at birth. Trans is for people who's gender identity is different from assigned sex at birth. You can't always know someone's pronouns by looking at them. One of the basic ways to show respect for a fellow slug. Create a safe environment for everyone to be  consent.
14:00:42 » Now you can see the poll please take the poll.
14:01:17 » Great. As we see from your responses 65% of you feel comfortable asking for consent. Which is encouraging to us. And about 9% of you said unsure to ask or feeling nervous. So we encourage you to check out the resources to check out the resources out.
14:01:47 » Care did a great job about the different ways to talk about consent. We want to emphasize the importance of asking for consent. That it is required. Confirming we have consent before engaging in sex is critical to insuring that nobody gets hurt. 80% of Title IX sexual assault investigations last year involved drugs and alcohol.
14:01:53 No one can give consent when they are incapacitated..
14:02:28 What is sexual harassment. Sexual harassment comes in 2 main forms. The first is quid pro quo. This for that. Employment status, class grade or anything of that sort is based upon providing a sexual favor to an employer, instructor or someone in a position of power. The second is hostile environment. Defined as sexual conduct unwelcome and severe enough to interfere with education.
14:02:38 This looks like a pattern ofular assment. A severe incident can create a hostile environment.
14:03:13 » Sexual harassment can come in different forms. Sexual harassment is obvious. In other instances sexual harassment may be subtle or indirect but contributes to a hostile environment. A key element on to consider is whether the behavior is unwanted. For example sending a nude photo may be fine if both parties give consent.
14:03:27 This is not exhaustist. There are other behaviors that may contribute to someone feeling sexually harassed. Oh.
14:04:09 There are other forms of gender based harassment do not have sexual based harassment. Intentionally repeatedly misgendering someone and making jokes or comments about someone's gender and sexual orientation. Keep in mind even when jokes and slurs are not directed at anyone in particular. The jokes are not okay. They can interfere in someone's education. We worked hard to get here. Let's be kind to each other and thoughtful with our words.
14:04:39 » Zoom bombing is zoom misconduct. We adopted zoom into a remote learning experience reports of zoom bombing have arisen. Harmful and disruptive. This may look like racism, sexism and other offensive jokes or comments shared on the video screen or posted in the chat. It can cause serious harm to individuals and zoom bombers can get into serious trouble.
14:05:23 Last year several students were suspended. Students can be held responsible for sharing zoom information. We take zoom misconduct seriously. It can be addressed by the Title IX office or the student misconduct office. Now before we move on to the next slide I'd like to take a moment to a trigger warning. Such as sexual assault stalking and invasions of sexual privacy. It's okay to turn off your camera and take a break from this presentation..
14:05:42 If you'd like support care advocates are available at care's office line. Or you can email care at UCSC.edu to set up an appointment. We will now be moving on to the next slide.
14:05:55 Sexual assault is any sexual act without affirmative consent. Contact on top of clothing or beneath it.
14:06:17 The consequences of sexual assault can be severe for the victim. Our campus has a minimum discipline to anyone found to have sexually assaulted someone. And encourage you to take action to keep your friends and others in your community safe.
14:06:53 » Stalking, stalking refers to a pattern of behavior that's unwanted and causes a person distress or concern for their safety. This includes cyber stalking. Given shelter in place orders affected how we interact with others. Cyber stalking may become even more common than in person stalking. Because stalking is a patterned behavior and not likely to stop without intervention we encourage students to reach out for help early on.
14:07:30 » So our policy also prohibits relationship violence also referred to as dating or domestic violence. This can include physical violence and nonphysical conduct that would create a fear of physical violence. This can come in the form of intimidating, possessive behavior. Relationship violence can also impact roommates and neighbors who worry and are deprived of a safe place to study and learn.
14:08:01 And while emotional abuse may not be considered relationship violence it's harmful and not part of our campus values. Even before physical violence occurs we can take steps to promote safety such as providing no contact directives to prevent things from escalating. The violence tends to escalate over time. Early reporting is definitely important.
14:08:28 So we know that college for many can be the place to explore your sexuality. But it's essential to do so while protecting sexual privacy. Consent is a critical component to prevent invasions of sexual privacy. If you want to take an intimate photo or video of someone else make sure to ask them first and make sure the other person is okay with them being taken.
14:09:00 If you want to send a person a nude picture make sure to talk to the person and confirm that it's okay that you send those pictures. Never ever share someone else's nude photos unless you have permission to do so. The nonconsenseual sharing of images can have impacts on mental health. Not only can it get you in trouble with Title IX, but it's also against the law.
14:09:49 » Sexual violence impacts everyone. Sex discrimination including sexual violence, sexual harassment can impact everyone. Marginalized populations are most vulnerable. This includes women, people of color, undocumented individuals, people with disabilities and members of the LGBT community. And it is intersectional. People who have been subject to institutional racism and oppression face additional barriers to reporting. Many experienced trouble or harm while reporting such violence or asking fo.
14:10:09 We know sexual violence is a difficult thing to process. And there can be a lot of overwhelming emotions. We hope from this presentation today you will remember there are options for you to feel safe and cared for within our community.
14:10:34 How can Title IX help? We're going to talk about how Title IX can respond to reports and what assistance and options are available. Before we do so, we want to get feedback from y would be a barrier to reporting to Title IX.
14:11:05 » All of the options displayed on the screen are valid. What you are feeling after surviving an incident can be really overwhelming and take a lot to reach out for help. So often we hear people resort to victim blaming. It can be difficult to avoid internalizing this narrative. We want to assure you that Title IX is not here to judge you. Instead it will do its best to install protective measures to keep you safe.
14:11:19 Sometimes it feels like you're orphanalizing an interaction.
14:11:43 » So it looks like about 58% of you said all of the above. We hope that as you keep learning about the Title IX office you understand that we're here to support you throughout your process. You have the powe be.
14:12:05 » How does Title IX respond to a report? There are ways that title 9 can respond to a report. The benefits of reporting include creating a record of report. Connecting to resources. Supportive measures and prevention and intervention.
14:12:37 Record of a report. Sometimes complainants report solely to create a record in our office but want nothing else. Not uncommon for someone to change their mind about what actions they want after time has past. There are benefits of reporting in case the problem persists, gets worse or the respondent involved in misconduct with others.
14:13:00 We can discuss options and supportive measures. Many complainants ask for help getting connected with other resources on campus. Title IX can provide them with this information about resources such as CARE, CAPS slug support, SHOP and other resources as appropriate.
14:13:31 » Title IX can provide supportive measures including change in class or work schedules. Academic adjustments whether a change in section, change in TA or a change to a different parking spot. We can provide no contact directives which we will tell you more about. There are additional measures that can be provided. It depends on the actual case and what the needs of the complainants are.
14:13:45 A commainant can seek supportive measures even if they do not opt for a formal investigation or alternative resolution.
14:14:15 No contact directives. One important safety in interim measure that our office provides are no contact directives. Similar to restraining orders. Initiated by the yesterday rather than a court. Can be given in 1 to 2 accident days. They are meant to be a preventative measure and not disciplinary. Both parties must not make contact with each other.
14:14:44 Reporting can also lead to prevention efforts. Each report we receive is an opportunity to learn about what's happening on campus. Sometimes we can talk to respondents directly about the impact of their actions. Refer to campus partners to get support. Don't worry we will only do so if we have permission.
14:15:01 When reports come in our office check to see if they're having past reports about the same party. We may launch a Title IX initiative investigation. Alternative resolution and formal investigation.
14:15:32 In addition to supportive measures complainants may speak with Title IX staff to identify alternative options. The complainant can choose how to proceed. The alternative resolution is designed to identify the harm that was caused and explore ways to remedy that harm. In order to reach an agreement the complainant and respondent voluntary work with the Title IX staff.
14:15:46 Terms may include restorative justice, counseling, separation of parties, and educational activities and other measures aimed to remedy and prevent future harm.
14:16:14 In an investigation the Title IX investigator will interview witnesses, look for and evaluate evidence and provide both parties ab opportunity to review and respond. At the conclusion of the investigation a formal -- a final report is issued. The process can lead to sanctions or discipline including and up to dismissal from the university.
14:16:15 .
14:16:40 » Reporting is protected. Title IX is dedicated to addressing issues of sexual violence with our community. And even possibly covid violations are involved in these case. Title IX offers amnesty to complainants and witnesses when an incident is reported.
14:17:15 How to report to Title IX. If you'd like to file a report access the online reporting form on the Title IX website. You can also call our office to make a report or schedule a consultation. Social distancing guidelines allow you can choose to visit the office. If you prefer for someone else to make a report you may trust a mandated report to your situation. And they will make the report for you.
14:17:44 What happens after the Title IX office receives a aren't? Once the report has been received Title IX will reach out to the complainant through an email. We'll share other resources the student can access. The complainant can decide whether or not to respond. The respondent will not be notified about the report without the complainant's knowledge or request.
14:18:14 What about respondents. Title IX is a compliance office. Thus is neutral and fair. This also means there's no presumption of guilt without a finding. Respondents must be notified of an investigation and the outcome at the conclusion. They have a right to an adviser and support person of their choice.
14:19:02 » So many things that be reported to title 9 can also be reported to the police. Such as stalking and sexual assault. Title IX is not an emergency responder. Call 911 if someone's in danger or needs immediate medical attention. You can contact the UCSC police if the crime happened on campus. Or you can go to police dot UCSC.edu. You can report to the local police department where the crime took place. If you're unsure about where to make a report, remember if you report to Title IX we can respon
14:19:25 So we've gone through a lot of information today. It's totally understandable if you don't remember everything that we've said at this point. There are 9 things we want you to take away. The first is that title 9 protects students from discrimination based on sex and gender.
14:19:39 Title IX is neutral. We protect gender and sexual orientation as well as pregnant and nursing students and employees. We do not ever share the immigration status of anyone.
14:20:14 Anyone who makes a Title IX complaint is protected from retaliation. We provide mutual no contact directives. There is amnesty for alcohol, drug, and covid related violations. Complainants can choose how they want to engage with Title IX. So all slides today's trainings are available as well as other information in the slu slugs care Title IX course in canvas which you should have been invited to.
14:20:35 We'll include a link to this recording if you want to review it in the future. This concludes our presentations. We're going to move to the Q and A portion where care, shop and Title IX will answer questions. Thank you, all.
14:21:13 » Hi everyone. I wanted to just address the question that we've seen about canvas. All of you who attended this presentation today have completed your requirement to do the CARE, SHOP Title IX training. We will be share egg video of this so you have a reference. You don't need to complete it again. We're going to provide lots of resources. Resources about all 3 of our offices so you have it for reference. In terms of the assignment in canvas that's all you need to do.
14:21:41 There is one additional requirement that's related to Title IX is related to Title IX. The sexual assault prevention course as part of we are slugs. You can find out more information about that going into your module orientation module in canvas and looking at we are slugs. And we'll put that information in the chat for you.
14:21:55 We have a couple of questions that I was hoping we could answer out loud. The first one was about gas lighting. Allison do you mind answering that.
14:22:22 » Thanks so much, Laura. To reiterate. We were talking really fast. Gas lighting is a form of psychological manipulation that attempts to assert power and control over someone making them question their memories and sense of reality. It's a disorientation tactic. I'm going to turn over to Allison dean who's going to share an example.
14:22:56 » As stated. Gas lighting, disorienting lying. An example that comes to mind. You have a partner participating in activities that maybe are upsetting to you, something that you have stated before that you aren't supportive of and they come back to you I never did that. That didn't happen. I don't know what you're talking about. It's to undermine your perception of reality is what gas lighting attempts to do. Yeah.
14:23:09 » Okay. We have another question that's related to the delay option as bystander intervention. They were hoping to get more information about what that looks like.
14:23:44 » Yeah, sure. So delay is when you might not feel comfortable intervening into a situation in the moment. But you've been witness to it. You want to make sure the person who experienced that harm knows that they're not alone. Going up to someone afterwards. Sending a message text I saw what happened. I heard what that person said to you. Is there anything that you need? Are there ways I can support. And intervening but not in that moment.
14:23:53 Making sure that you are acknowledging that you have been witness to this experience and that person isn't alone.
14:24:32 » Thanks Allison. There were a couple of you that mentioned not feeling comfortable reaching out getting support in person or on the phone because of being in unsafe situations right now. Maybe not having a private place to talk. You can find information on the CARE website if you want to read more. There's a website called rainn.org which provides a live chat option. People can support you in a quiet chat where no one else in the house can know about it.
14:25:10 » I will. I responded maybe privately to a couple people that asked that question. Just to share in the space our advocates will work with you to figure out a way to provide that support in a way that's safe and comfortable for you. If you're not able to talk on the phone, we can provide that support over email. There's clients that we only work with back and forth over email. That's a saffer thing. Someone else might have access to it and they're not safe. We're going to strategize with each in
14:25:19 And we are exploring text based options that can potentially be a resource for you coming up in the fall.
14:26:06 » There was another question about someone wondering about restraining orders or no contact agreements maybe had an uncomfortable interaction with someone. And whether or not that other person would no. It's not possible to do a no contact or restraining order without the other person knowing. But I would encourage you if you had a situation that makes you feel uncomfortable or unsafe reach out to CARE or Title IX and talk to us about what your options are. There may be a way to strategize a and
14:26:25 Are there any other ones that you're seeing that we should answer. They're moving so quickly for me right now. I see one that says what kind of -- I'm not sure how that would be answered live.
14:27:02 » In terms of the 5 courses if you completed them you do not need to send in a certificate. It is automatic. We'll see. If some reason something goes askew you can contact us at we are slugs. There's no extra step that you need to complete all the courses. Alcohol education, diversity and inclusion and the sexual assault program. Thanks for asking. Welcome to download the certificate. I recommend that. I had students graduate and wish they had that certificate..
14:27:40 We can't save it for you. It's great to have for your records. One more about the canvas question. Canvas is one of the courses that you were assigned. Not assigned but we shared with you and it's called CARE Title IX fall 20 something like that. And it's basically just a way of us sharing information. Sharing resours. Sharing the power point with you. So you have it for your time at UC Santa Cruz. For students who don't make this training and host a make up.
14:27:52 We're hosting a make up video which is a recording of this presentation. Students who missed it can make it up at their convenience. It is required.
14:28:00 You do not need to attend tomorrow's training, webinar or session. We're just asking you to do one.
14:28:04 There was a question about health insurance.
14:28:41 » I'll take that. For those of you who should ucshp you can access that resource. Some students are doing in person appointments if they need immunizations. Covers flu shots, contraception, chiropractor, opt Tom tree. Even if you're not in the area there's ways to use it remotely. Our pharmacy does send prescriptions to folks out of the area. You can start accessing it.
14:29:08 I will put the UCSC student health link in the chat. And the insurance in the chat. We are excited to have you use that. You do not UCSHP for SHOP, for CARE, for caps. Those are resources available to all students.
14:29:35 » Maybe one final question. People were asking if there's other required trainings today. We don't know. I know part of welcome week there's a lot of different activities going on. A lot of presentations. I encourage you to check in the orientation module in canvas where you can find out all of the different things that students are doing and all of the training options available to you.
14:29:39 And anyone else I might have missed something.
14:30:19 » I wanted to chime in and say I'm appreciative to all the students engagement. We have 130 questions submitted. If we didn't have a chance to get to yours, I apologize. There was questions about abusive relationships, bystander intervention. And if you want to talk more you can reach out to CARE. We have a peer to peer intern team that provides work shops on these topics. And have resources that we want to share with you if you want to learn more. Thanks for your engaged participation over the
14:30:34 » Ally or amber is it possible to answer questions about immunization. People are wondering if it's required even though they're remote from home.
14:30:57 » Yeah. That would be -- that would be a question that you could call the health center and ask. I believe those immunizations do need to be up to date for fall quarter. If folks don't get them done in a timely manner they can impact when you register for winter quarter there can be a hold.
14:31:14 » I checked in yesterday I was getting questions from folks on campus. Even if someone is remote those vaccinations are required. That's affecting every UC across the state.
14:31:38 » And just to reiterate again the questions keep coming in, if you attended a session today it doesn't matter if you attend yesterday you don't need to attend the care Title IX session tomorrow either.
14:32:12 » And in terms of the mandatory zoom meetings whether links will get emailed to you. This is a webinar. They're generated. It's an unusual situation. We don't need to use those. Just because this group is so large. Zoom meetings you get a calendar invite. I think that would be a good question to check with your adviser about.
14:32:33 » So many good questions. Any other questions that the panel is identifying that is being asked a lot.
14:32:43 » Still scrolling. I think we got most of them covered though.
14:33:04 » We have a question about covid testing. So for folks that are on campus, covid testing is mandatory. I see one in the chat about that. If folks are living on campus. If you're living off campus covid testing is voluntary at this point.
14:33:48 » Our covid testing is accessible. Amber and I are part of the covid testing team. You can be in and out of there in 15 minutes unless there's a line. The testing experience takes 2 minutes. We have slugs living in the community who might want to get tested. That is a resource you can have.
14:33:49 » Any other questions that folks see.
14:34:33 » Still a few that I think we mostly answered. I would just say the everficourses were part of we are slugs training. They started July. It depends when you finished your registration when you would have been notified. It's been an on going assignment. If you're not sure I would say visit the we are slugs website and see if you can find out independence. You will recognize information about these courses and you'll be sure. Information about that requirement in the orientation module in canvas.
14:35:13 » There was a question about how to get connected with other slugs remotely. This is a tough time. You should be here with us getting to build community together. I know that's tough. One of of the things I'm noticing on Instagram. Pages for student orgs, each college, each college Senate. There's zoom gatherings and things going on. Following pages on Instagram is a great idea. Wondering if students on the panel have tips as we close out about how you're staying connected with other students re
14:35:31 » I'm a big supporter of joining the Facebook group of your class. I'm part of the UCSC class of 22. That's my graduating year. You get to see on campus, off campus what everyone is doing. I enjoy it.
14:35:55 » I'll add to that too. There's an official Facebook group for UCSC students. I'm a part of that. I remember joining my freshmen year. It helps you get connected to other students that attend the university whether they graduated last year or going into freshmen year this year. I encourage you to join there as well.
14:36:00 » Somebody was asking when cornucopia is?
14:36:14 » I think that's coming up next week. Online experience where you can learn about the orgs active fall quarter. A lot of it is going to be remote. I don't know exactly when it is.
14:36:25 » There's questions coming in about vaccinations and healthcare. Do you mind repeating where they can find that information? The website.
14:36:49 » We put the web center in the chat. A couple of times. We can add it one more time. We're getting them 24/7 Monday through Friday 8 to 5. That is something that the health center is prepared to answer.
14:37:04 » Cornucopia is Tuesday from 4 to 6:30 for folks that want to see all the things that are out there.
14:37:39 » I think we mostly covered them all. There's a lot of repeats or slight variations on things we said outloud. I can't tell if they came in before or after we answered it. Unless anybody has anything else that they want to add at the end. Thank you for participating, for being here. Thank you to the interns for doing a great job. We're here for you if you have questions. Feel free to contact us with the contact information that we shared.
14:37:44 Okay. Take care. Bye-bye slugs.
